# Haystacks Capstone

The Haystacks Project is an assessment on external amenity effects on rental rates in the Atlanta, Georgia area. Specifically, it is known that distance from an external amenity affects rental price in some way. It was decided to initiate an analysis of the "convenience factor", defined as the amenity critical to local livelihood: grocery stores. Divided into five different categories, the data were placed into a Leaflet web application built using JavaScript, and then nearest point of interest was calculated. This process was repeated with density, to see if the amount of stores had a larger impact than proximity. Machine learning models, like XGBoost, Random Forests, and Multiple Linear Regression (along with naturalization methods), were then used to demonstrate the actual accuracy and the trends of the data, in order to see which features matter most and to what extent. 

Evaluation using statistical methods found that proximity had a stronger impact when the three mile range was included, and supermarkets, above all, had the strongest positive impact, eventually even surpassing square footage in SHAP displays. Results were mixed for variety stores, supercenters, and wholesale stores the most, with there being some evidence that even close proximity to a variety store may negatively impact a house's price. It would also appear that too many wholesale stores in an area could negatively impact prices, assuming no other external factors were at play. Convenience stores were a close second behind supermarkets in positive growth. 

Model effectiveness is then evaluated and discussed after findings, as well as further suggestions based on the literature review.
